We're the group that does
keychain and cryptography
and PKI and things like that,
and also smart cards.
So in this session,
we're going to go over how we use smart
cards and other tokens in Mac OS X.
It's particularly about
actually the last bullet point,
which is how to add support
for new types of tokens.
So we'll be just going over very,
very quickly how to configure a
system for token-based authentication,
how to write applications
that support tokens,
and then we'll spend most of
the time on how to add support
for new types of tokens.
support for new types of tokens.
Okay,
so quickly going over configuration.
We have had built-in support for
smart cards for several releases now.
We've been adding more
capabilities as time goes on.
One of the things that we
added for Tiger was support for
something we called a TokenD,
which gives us the ability
to support additional types
of smart cards and tokens.
So we've had support for
PCSC Drivers and PCSC Lite,
actually I think since release 10.2.
But with TokenDs,
we get the ability to support
different types of cards.
If you look inside
System Library Security TokenD,
you'll see the few different ones
that we ship built in with Tiger and,
of course, with Leopard 2.
And if you look in User LibExec
Smart Card Services Drivers,
you'll see some of the different
PCSC drivers for the different devices.
The different types of TokenDs
that we support so far on Tiger are
for the Common Access Card,
which is the U.S.
Department of Defense-issued
smart card for identification.
The Belgian Identity Card,
which is issued to every Belgian citizen.
They'll have completed
their rollout by 2008.
And also the Japanese PKI card.
So those are the token
deeds that are built in now,
but you'll learn through this
session how if you have a token,
you can add support for it as well.
Now, this slide is kind of surprising
and I think very important.
But with Leopard,
you do not have to do any
client-side modification at all to
enable token-based authentication.
And if you've ever tried to do this,
this is actually, as I say,
it's surprising.
Currently on Tiger,
you do have to change something on the
system to enable the smart card sniffer.
But still, actually,
there's no client-side
modification needed.
So part of the authentication process,
if you went to the session yesterday
about login and authorization,
you learned how this worked in detail.
But part of it is,
as a user starts to log in to the system
or starts to authenticate to the system,
they make a claim about who they are.
And
As part of this process,
you want to validate whether
that claim is true or not.
So if you're looking at smart card login,
The authorization plug-in will actually
make calls off to directory services
to look up the user in the directory
services or in the back-end directory.
So you can see all the directories
shown in purple down below.
Those are all the different kinds
of directories that we support.
And you'll be going through
the different layers,
the authentication API or
security framework.
We'll be looking up and doing
all the different things.
We'll be looking at the standard
directory services to find that user.
So again,
I want to emphasize that for the really,
really gory details about how to do this,
there's a session on Friday morning.
The number will be shown at the end here.
So if you're in IT,
then that will be the session
you'll really want to see.
But for the recommended way of
setting up token-based authentication,
what we recommend is storing the
public key hash associated with
the key that you want to use
to log in or authenticate with,
storing that in the directory.
So you can figure out what the
different public key hashes
are by typing in scauth hash.
And if you have a smart card or token,
one that's supported,
it will list all the
different public key hashes.
Okay, you can then add this to
the authentication authority
attribute for the user.
And again, using the SCAuth script.
You can say seauth accept my
user and then follow that by
the hash of the public key.
And to borrow from a commercial
from a while back that Apple did,
there is no step three.
That's it.
That's all you have to do.
So it's very,
very easy in the sort of the recommended
setup to add a user and allow them
to authenticate using their token.
So again, go to the session on Friday to
see some of the caveats and other
things that you might run into.
But a very,
very common one that sort of prevents
you from doing that recommended scheme
is that you don't have the ability to
add items to your directory schema.
So you might be in an organization
that doesn't allow changes like
that or would be prohibitive to do.
That can be a difficulty.
There is a way to create a configuration
file that will allow you to use other
items on the token to look up credentials
that you can use to authenticate with,
and there are more details on that.
One specific example that unfortunately
doesn't work with this setup is that
the Active Directory plug-in generates
authentication authority on the fly,
and so you can't really add
that in using this script.
But we are thinking about ways
of improving that experience,
and so it could be that when the
final version of Leopard ships
that we'll have sorted that out.
Okay, so now again a brief thing
for people that are writing
application-level code that needs to
talk to smart cards or other tokens.
So how do you get token support?
Now traditionally,
this has really been very,
very difficult because
as an application writer,
often you're not really that
concerned with security or
that's not your primary focus.
And so it's a lot of extra
work to add security layers in.
But it's even worse when you look
at all the different types of tokens
that you might have to talk to.
So it rapidly gets out of hand if
you want to start supporting these.
So typically what happens is you'll
write an application and then you'll
write maybe through a PKCS11 layer.
And then you'll write directly to
a particular token that's maybe
unique to your organization.
But that really doesn't scale very well.
So we had thought about this for a while,
and the recommendation that we have to
work on Mac OS X is to use the CDSA or
SEC APIs inside your application.
So if you do that, you will get automatic
support for tokens underneath.
So some of the SEC APIs,
Secure Transport, CF Network, WebKit,
SEC Keychain Calls,
those are all examples of these.
And if you write to these APIs,
then you'll automatically have support
for tokens at the same level that you
would have for a file-based keychain,
for example.
And that last bullet point is important,
that you should be able to do most,
if not all,
of your testing just using soft keys.
So in other words,
a key that you've picked up that's, say,
from VeriSign or Thought,
that's in a P12 file
imported into your keychain,
if it works with that,
then you should be able to just go ahead
and expect that it will work with tokens.
So we have a concrete
example of this working,
Microsoft Entourage.
This is an existing Mac OS X app,
and actually this story
is really from last year.
When they were working on Office 2004,
they wanted to add the ability
to have smart card support.
And we didn't even have the
APIs finalized or anything.
We had nothing for them to
work with at that point.
But we knew that we would be basing it
on this idea of talking to the sec APIs.
So we said, okay,
just write everything down.
And we said, okay,
Okay, so now I'm going to talk a little
bit about the architecture of
tokens in Mac OS X Leopard.
[Transcript missing]
We wanted it to work with existing
applications using current Mac OS X APIs.
We wanted it to be able
to support single sign-on,
and as a follow-on to that,
it needed to be able to
allow the token to be shared
among different applications.
So we wanted the ability
to enter a PIN here,
and then, unless you disallow it,
allow some other application
to also use that card.
So we had looked at different
things like writing a CSP,
which is a cryptographic
service provider,
data library module.
We could have written
one of those per card,
but then only that particular
app would know about that PIN.
Writing the PKCS11 driver has some
of the drawbacks that I mentioned,
which is it tends to be very,
very vertical,
very specific to the token.
So what advantages did we get
out of the TokenD solution?
Excuse me.
We ended up with horizontal
support for the tokens.
So across all these
different applications,
they could all share the token
and use the token without all of
them having to do all of the work.
So out of the box on actually for some
features going back as far as Panther,
but certainly Tiger and Leopard,
there's support for login, authorization,
mail using S-MIME,
Safari for client-side authentication.
Screen locking.
And also any apps that are
using CDSA or CDSA-type APIs.
So again, including WebKit or CF Network.
If the token allows it,
you can have single
sign-on with the token.
So in other words,
you authenticate once to
the token using your PIN,
and that will remain unlocked until
the developer wants that to be locked.
We have support for ACLs.
And as I mentioned,
previously all you had was support for
vertical applications based on PCSC.
So here, conceptually,
what we're trying to do with
this is just think of tokens,
either smart cards or
other hardware tokens,
as keychains.
That's the best way to think of them.
They're not file-based like the
regular keychain that you're used to,
but they are still keychains,
so they support all the same APIs.
You can see from the diagram up above,
you have the applications
written on top of the smart card.
of the Sec APIs and those Sec APIs are
calling into the CDSA pieces of
CSSM and this new cryptographic
service provider called the SDCSPDL.
So that's a smart card device
cryptographic service provider.
The SDCSP DL communicates back
and forth with Security D,
which is the process that's responsible
for managing sort of traffic directing
for cryptographic operations.
And Security D will communicate
not only with individual token Ds,
but also back and forth to PCSC D.
Now,
the communication to PCSC D is mostly
deciding whether or not to launch a
new token or not to launch a new token.
So if it sees the insertion of a device,
it will say, okay,
I better launch PCSC D,
start that rolling.
But it can also detect removal
events and things like that.
You can see from the diagram, too,
PCSC D will communicate with the readers
or has the APIs to talk to the readers,
and it knows when readers
are inserted or removed.
And then the individual token Ds will
talk to the readers through the PCSC D.
APIs.
Now to make these token Ds possible,
we have something called the
Security Token D Framework,
which helps you-- it sort of
wraps around each token D.
A token D, by the way, is--
[Transcript missing]
So a token D, again,
is a process that's loaded for
each token or card that's inserted.
And you'll have one
token D per active token.
As you go up through the
different layers of the API,
the higher levels of the system just
see those as additional keychains.
And as you insert and remove tokens,
they'll be added to the dynamic
search list for keychains.
The API for this has a number of
callback functions which are called
by the system as they're needed.
So there's a set of functions that
are initially invoked to kind of
get the token D up and running,
and then there are another set
of callbacks which are invoked
as the higher-level applications
call down through the CDSA stack.
So here you can see,
this is just a larger version
of that previous diagram,
where you can see that the SDCS PDL is
just another cryptographic service
provider alongside the other modules
that are inside the CDSA architecture.
If you're not familiar with CDSA,
it's an acronym for
Common Data Security Architecture,
and this is our framework for
doing cryptography and public key
infrastructure and things like that.
It's roughly equivalent in size and
thickness of manual to something
like Crypto API on the Windows side.
So what happens, how does a token D sort
of come into life?
As a device is inserted,
PCSC, well actually IOCIT,
will send a notification that
PCSC picks up and Security D will
notice that this new device is there.
An additional step ahead of
this is if PCSC is not running,
then Security D is actually looking for
notifications of insertions as well.
Assuming PCSC is running,
it will get that notification.
And then Security D will look
at each token D that is inside
system library security token D.
It's going to launch each one
of those token Ds in turn,
and it makes an API call
called probe to each token.
The token D that returns the highest
score through probe will end up
living and will be assigned by
security D to work with the token.
The other token Ds will be killed off.
And then after that process is done,
established is called,
and that's a chance for your code
to do whatever it might need to
do to initially set up the token.
Okay, so now that's a very,
very brief overview of the
architecture and configuration,
whatever.
Now we're going to dive right
into the implementation.
Okay, so the one-day token D,
that's the goal.
That's what hopefully we can do as we
step through these different slides.
You might think that the one-day token
D is sort of hyperbole or whatever,
but we've actually had more than
one developer write a pretty
functioning token D in a single day.
The standard token D for
the common access card,
DOD common access card,
is only 1,900 lines of code total.
And a lot of lines in that set
of code don't have to be modified
to make it work with your token.
So, our goal...
[Transcript missing]
You can use either the
Common Access Card or the BellPix
sources from Darwin as starting points.
And at some point pretty soon,
we should have a sample token D where
we took the CAC token D and stripped
out everything that's CAC-specific
so it's even easier to start from.
The interesting thing is
that most of the code,
so I mentioned there were
1,900 lines in the CAC code.
Excuse me, in the CAC token D,
I would say probably
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so our plan of attack
for this one-day token D,
we're going to go
through a few steps here.
Implement at least a stub
for probe and identify,
so that tells security D whether
or not it should leave,
you know,
whether or not your token D wins
and knows how to talk to the card.
There are two classes called
XYZ record in this sample code and
XYZ key record that we will modify
to know more about our token.
We'll add at least one key and one
certificate in the populate call,
and then we'll fill in the actual
data in get data attribute.
Then we'll try it out.
Okay, so there are a few functions
that you will need to change.
So starting from that base of either the
XYZ sample or the CAC token D sample,
you will have to change these functions.
So they are probe, identify,
which is really just a
sub-function of probe.
Populate, which will put items
into the local database,
and get data attribute.
So these, you're going to have to write
at least four functions.
Okay, so now let's go on to our
stub for probe and identify.
So you can see from the
[Transcript missing]
The point of Probe is that you,
as the token D writer, know your token,
and if somebody inserts a token,
you need to know whether that's a
token that you can handle or not.
If it's something that you can handle,
return a score, say, of 100.
Or if it's something you
might be able to handle,
maybe you'll return something like a 50.
Whichever token D comes up with the
highest score will stay running.
If you're familiar with
PCSE and using that,
there's a structure in there
called SCARD reader state,
and that is passed to this call,
or it's available from this call,
and you can get things
like the ATR out of that.
If you decide that, yes,
you really know how to handle this token
and you want to be in charge of it,
then you should do your best to
fill in token UID with a really
unique identifier for that card.
So, the best thing is if your card has a,
you know, you've issued it to employee,
you know, 12345 and your company name is,
you know, XYZ Corp,
maybe return an identifier of, you know,
XYZ Corp 12345.
And the reason that you want to
do that is as part of establish,
you get past a directory
which is your cache directory
and security D keeps track,
helps you keep track of different cards
that are inserted by this unique ID.
So you want to try and... Okay.
Do a good job filling that out.
Okay, so here's a very,
very simple implementation of probe.
You call the probe for the base class,
which will do some basic stuff.
You can go off and look at
the class there to see the
different things that it's doing,
but you'll almost
certainly want to do that.
[Transcript missing]
So looking at identify, again,
you as the owner and manufacturer
of the token or populator of the
token are going to know what will
uniquely identify that as one of the
tokens that you know how to handle.
It may be that you identify
that by something in the ATR.
In the case of, say,
a Java card like the Common Access card,
if you look at the sources for that,
you'll see that it selects
a particular Java applet.
If it manages to select that,
then it's pretty confident that
it's found an actual CAC card.
Here it shows a couple things.
You pull out the,
by calling startup reader info,
you will get back a copy of the ATR.
And here at the bottom, you can see,
well, okay, we're going to say if byte 12
and byte 14 are these values,
then this must be one of our tokens.
Okay, so next,
I'm not going to go over how you change
XYZ record and XYZ key record in detail,
but we do need to add at least one
key and one certificate in Populi.
So what Populate does is it's a
chance for you to push records
into the local database.
So as I mentioned earlier
on the architecture diagram,
Say the file-based keychain
is a combination CSP and DL,
data library module.
That means it's a database of sorts.
It contains your keys and passwords
and secure notes and things like that.
In this populate call, you're saying,
okay, I have a few different
record types on my token,
and when the upper levels
call down and make CDSA calls,
it will be able to iterate through
those records and find them.
So on this slide,
you'll see that we're basically doing
some database housekeeping here.
We're describing to the schema class
some of the different relations or tables
that we have on this token database.
So we have one relation
for an X.509 certificate,
we have a different
relation for a private key,
and we have another one for generic.
Generic might be if
you have data records.
For example,
the common access card has pay grade
and it has social security number and
date of birth and things like that.
So those would be generic
data type records.
One thing I didn't
mention at the end there,
you do not have to actually go and
fetch any of the data at populate time.
If you want, you can defer actual data
retrieval to when somebody
calls a get data attribute call.
Okay, so to continue on with Populate,
see the first set of lines there?
It's creating a new certificate
record called ID cert.
And the next two parameters
there to the new call,
there's one that's in blue
that's K select XYZ applet PK ID.
This is an example of something that you
might be doing if you had a Java card.
So on Java, Java cards you have applets
which are little Java applets,
you know, a subset of Java.
And they have ATR kind of identifiers,
you know, hex identifiers,
and you pick a particular one and it
will do a particular function for you.
So here I'm passing
that as an identifier.
If you have different type of token,
that might not be relevant to you.
So you can change,
this is what I meant when I said
you might have to change the
XYZ certificate record call.
In particular,
the constructor to take something that's
useful for you to be able to identify
different applets or files on your token.
And we passed along this
name identity certificate.
That's also just really
for your purposes.
The second line of that cert
relation dot insert record,
you actually take that new cert
record that you created and you
add it into the local database.
So this doesn't actually
have any data in it yet.
It's really just a pointer saying, yep,
there's one certificate on this card.
And if I had a bunch of certificates,
I could either have a bunch of new
calls or I could have a loop that
goes and checks with my card or
maybe most cards are very small.
They don't have a lot of items on them,
so you can just enumerate them.
We're going to do a very,
very similar thing for
the private key record.
So you can see we're creating a
new XYZ key record called IDKey.
And again,
we're passing in this XYZ applet
PKID just to pick out that
particular Java applet.
And then we're going to also insert
that record into the local database.
Now the last set of lines there,
probably the least familiar to anyone.
with the particular private
key that you're working with,
you want to be able to
associate a certificate record.
So we provided a way to do
that by saying set adornment.
So you take the private
key record and you say,
oh, yeah, this private key,
I use that certificate over there.
So you don't have to do lots of
searches to find the certificate
that goes with the private key.
That's all that line is really doing.
Okay, so next we're going to fill in
the data in getDataAttribute.
So, get data attribute is the actual call
where you're going to be going off
to your token and retrieving data.
You will make the calls that
you need to read the certificate
data or do key operations.
Sorry, not key operations.
So, if you look at the CAC token,
you'll see a really detailed
example that has a lot of
[Transcript missing]
But what I did put in here,
just to illustrate sort of the
general layout of this call,
You're passed in a
reference to a token record.
And when this call is called.
And I've highlighted
the PCSC transaction.
So you can use that class
to start a transaction.
And then the lines below that,
you're going to do whatever you need to
do with your card to retrieve that data.
So in the case of a CAC card,
you're going to be talking
with that Java applet.
There are classes that are built
in to help you cache that data,
which you may want to do.
Like smart cards have very low data rate.
So you're going to want to
read the certificate once.
It's public.
You might as well cache it.
So read it in.
You can use these classes
to help you cache that data.
At the end, you're going to end up with
a blob of data that you
want to return in this call.
And you can see the last line there.
The two parameters there are data.
Data.data and data.length.
That data is a CSSM data structure,
which is just a pointer and a length.
And you're going to return that up.
And that will get passed up through
the different levels and get mushed
around as necessary to turn it into
something that looks like a certificate.
Okay, so now that's it.
Those are the four things
that you had to change.
So build it.
You install it into system
library security token D,
which of course you have
to be able to do that.
And then try it out in keychain access.
So there you go, success.
This is what it should look like.
This is an example of actually
the shipping CAC token D,
but you'll see something
very similar to this.
You can see on the top left,
this shows up as smart card number three.
So it's a dynamic keychain,
and it's just added
to your keychain list.
If you click on that,
you will then see the
contents of that keychain.
So here you can see it has
a couple different keys and
a couple different certs,
three keys and three certs on that token.
Okay, now, you probably did all
that in about an hour,
right?
It's all ready to go,
and you're practically ready to ship.
But probably you should add
some calls to the crypto code.
So these are the calls that you're
going to be calling or modifying
to add the actual cryptographic
operations for your token.
So compute crypt.
Compute Crypt, I should point out,
is where the bulk of your
cryptographic work is going to happen.
So you'll either be making requests
to the card to do encryption or...
you know,
perhaps use a key in other ways.
There's a lot of code,
if you look at the CAC example,
you'll see there's a lot of code
that's there that deals with things
like different types of padding,
you know, notepad, pad,
different RSA things.
A lot of that code you should be able
to reuse because it's just standard
things that you have to do before you
can set up for a cryptographic operation.
So in many cases you won't change
any of those lines of code.
But of course,
ultimately you'll end up calling out
either to your card directly or you may
have a PKCS 11 library that you can make
the crypto calls to PKCS 11 to actually
have that library do the work for you.
You'll certainly need to implement verify
pin if you want to be able to do anything
that requires the card to be unlocked.
That takes a pin number and
the pin and the pin length.
And you will be passed
these from the upper layers.
So for example, when you're logging in,
if you set your machine up for smart
card login and insert a supported token,
you'll see that the login window
dialog changes from password to pin.
If you enter the pin,
that'll go through security agent,
which will talk with security D,
which will then pass it
down to your token D.
So that's the path for that.
Change pin, very,
very similar type thing.
And pin status essentially
tells you whether or not
the card is unlocked or not.
So if you think back to
keychain access where you see
the card is locked or unlocked,
pin status will help the upper levels
do the right thing in terms of showing
you whether the token's locked or not.
Okay, so it's kind of a quick
summary of token-Ds in general.
TokenDs allow you to have shared access
to different smart cards or other tokens.
They're pretty simple to implement,
especially using the C++ layer.
It does require that you
understand your particular token,
but given that,
the additional work involved to
get these working with Mac OS X is
relatively small on a development scale.
TokenD is not PKCS 11, although you can,
if you want,
you could wrap a TokenD around
a PKCS 11 driver.
Maybe you've written it
for another platform,
and that would be a good way to do it.
We've had developers that have done,
that have, you know,
We already have an
existing PKCS 11 driver,
and one developer started
wrapping their PKCS 11 library
with a token D and realized,
no, it's just easier to just call
their functions directly.
We had another developer that decided,
no, we'll keep that separation so that
it's easier for us to maintain.
Either way should work for you.
It's certainly the additional work
for writing a token D is much,
much less work than
writing a PKCS 11 library.
Not only because, well,
if you already have that,
you already know how to do crypto
operations with your token,
but the C++ layers handle so much of
the database management and the key
management for you that you don't
have to write a lot of things that you
would have to do in a PKCS 11 library.
I didn't go into modifying
the token at all.
The callbacks are there,
but we don't currently have any
token-Ds that write to the card.
If you are writing, say,
a provisioning system for
smart cards or tokens,
It's possible that you'll
want to do that just using,
say, PCSC calls directly.
I think the main point behind
a token D is that you get a
user-level experience that's really,
really nice because all these apps
that the users are used to using,
they don't have to do anything
special for smart cards.
They just kind of work
once you have this token D.
For more information,
you can contact Craig Keithley,
who's the biotechnology
and security evangelist.
We have...
Some sample code coming up,
particularly the XYZ token,
which hopefully we'll be
able to release very soon.
It's already completed.
And in addition, you can look at the
Darwin sources for the sources
to the CAC and BellPIC tokens.